Hello again fantastic God.
People in this video are going to start making the guards move Now the guards won't actually be moving
by the end of this video.
But we set everything up so they're going to know where they can move and how to figure out how to get
there to do that.
We're going to be using a node called navigation 2D.
And that's going to handle all of our pathfinding.
Let's take a quick look at what needs to happen.
Our guards are going to have a list of possible destinations are going to be able to get as many of
these as we want and not change the code.
The Guard is going to pick a random designation and move there and I'd like them to move about half
a speed of the player when they arrive at the destination the Guard's going to wait three seconds.
You can change that if you like.
And then they're just to start this whole thing all over again.
So they're going to walk to a place wait and then stop.
Also if for some reason they bump into something they get stuck rather than just keep walking into that
thing that is going to pick a new destination.
Now let's say we want to move this guard over here in the white circle to this little diamond shape.
What navigation to do he's going to do is say okay you're allowed to move in all of these rooms.
You can't move through a wall.
So we're going have to define the Eric move.
And then it's going to create a simple path.
Right.
It's going to say okay if you go here and here and here and look how it's hugging these corners right.
We're going have to make sure that the Guard can actually get through here.
This path by the way is actually an array of vector 2s this position zero position 1 2 and 3.
So it's just going to create an array of coordinates and then we're going to tell it moved to this one.
Move to that one to that one.
OK.
So that's how it works.
How do we set it up.
Well we got back into the engine and I'm going to create a brand new node and it's going to be a navigation
to download.
Animal leave the name as it is.
And for now let's hide our canvas modulation to make the navigation 2D work.
We're going to create a sudden node and that's going to be this navigation polygon instance navigation
polygon is an area we can draw in the same way that we drew collision and occlusion and auto tile that
tells godso anything that's using this navigation can calculate positions from within this area.
But don't look outside.
OK.
Let's set up a new navigation polygon and we can use these three icons we have ADD.
We have at it and we have delete.
We can also put this on the grid if we want.
So I guess that to grid and I'm going to configure snap to what is a 64 I believe by 64.
And just to double check.
That's right.
Let's show grid and look about right.
Let's find out.
Yeah.
So you'll see that right now.
Just finish this grid off like so.
So this looks perfect.
However there's going to be an issue.
The issue is if this guard wants to move a puff we said he's going to do this.
He's going to walk this way bump into the wall and either get stuck somewhere else to fix that.
What I'm going to do is I'm not going to snap to that kind of grit.
I can either do the whole thing and agreed now removal points like so.
So I just unsnap the grid and they just gave him a little bit of leeway.
And that's good tell them okay you can walk here which will always give him enough clearance to get
through doors or I can just draw the entire thing freehand.
I'm tempted to do the entire thing freehand So I'm going to clear my navigation polygon and I need to
set a brand new one.
Sometimes the actual thing bugs out is open and you see.
Let's go into security cameras and back in there agus and Atlas draw some points and I'm going to do
this off the grid for now not look as neat but it'll be fine so I'm going to define all the areas I
don't want the guards to go into I don't want them going into his bathroom.
If you leave in an hour from here they're never going into these corners and so on.
So one would do is I'm just going to speed up the video.
And then when I click on last point it will seal that off.
Now there's a few things I need to change.
Let's go try and go through these walls and these pillars.
You'll also notice there's a few areas I haven't put in my serendipities jazz a closet that's off limits
as a place to play can hide.
And I think this will be a fun little corridor where the guard can still see you if it goes this way.
He's not actually going to go in there so you can mark certain areas off limits.
Now this does look a little rough and ready but that's fine.
All we're doing is telling the guard don't walk in to this corner this is your pathfinding.
Guess how do we add in these extra areas.
Well I'm going to add in more points.
Like so.
Close that off.
And now this air is off limits.
So let me just do that again.
Sorry I told you does not have been in here I am tidying.
So new point and I'm going to mark these areas.
As part of this polygon.
A speed up as I finish them off.
And that's looking pretty good now.
Again you could do this very neatly with the grid and we just cut a worker how they had this corners.
It was also possible to put in navigation stuff in your auto tiles.
But again I'm not doing that because I don't want the guards to bump into the corner if they're going
with the shortest route.
They will take shortcuts.
We can set something in the script make them not always do that but just to make it as safe as possible.
I'm going to use these manually so we now have navigation polygon set up.
Now what I'd like to do is create a list of destinations we could do this in script right.
If a destination is just a position a quad and that's a vector to with the X being the first position
and the Y being the second.
However if we do that in script there's a number of limitations.
The first limitation is every time we change the level every time we want to move a position we're going
to have to figure out the coordinates.
So this is what is that levon 52 on the X and 760 on the Y.
And change them in script.
The other limitation is were going to have to have a different set of coordinates for every level we
make.
So instead let's leverage the fact that godso likes to use nodes as objects.
Let's create a new sub node in navigation to day and image can make a node 2D.
I'm going to call this destination's the solution is going be a folder and inside that Im going to put
a position to denote position to de only exists for leatherland.
Right for in the editor it doesn't actually do anything in-game.
It's just a position you can use this to do stuff.
Let's say I want this to be a pivot point or something like that or in this case I want this to be a
destination.
We call this destination one and was a good place for Destination 1 I feel like right here it's a good
place for Destination 1 and I'm going to duplicate that and got to automatically updates the number
and move that I've got move selects up here.
It's a little hard to see against the grain so let's hide the navigation polygon.
In fact they're just difficult to see aren't they lines move the floors as well.
No hiding the floors.
Now I could see these positions a little better.
I will put these back put one in here another one here and I could just put as many of these as I like.
Which brings me to the challenge of this video.
What do like to do is create your navigation polygon instance feel level and add in a bunch of destinations
and as many as you like.
Just wherever you put it.
That's where the Guard is going to go and wait it's pause the video.
Create the navigation for your level and when you come back I'll show you my level.
And welcome back.
Okay so let's add in some more destinations.
I feel like here is a good place here.
And you know I will put in a few in here because it's a nice big room and one up here and one down here
and maybe one in the centre and how I feel about one more somewhere.
Maybe down here there's nothing down here.
And one of the bathrooms needs to be one bathrooms.
And that's his looking pretty solid.
So I'm going to minimize that and bring back the floors and the canvas modulate and that's where our
levels can look like.
OK so we've now set up everything we're going to need to convince the guards to move.
All we need to do now is actually write that movement script that navigations which is what we might
be doing in the next video.
So just a quick refresher of what's going on here.
We're using a navigation to download and we're using a navigation polygon instance node to define where
things can move.
I will put the links to navigation 2D documentation in this video so feel free to read up on it.
But we going to be using something called Get simple path which is going to create an array of vector
tools then went off the guards move to the next place in the array and when you get to that point get
the next entry.
So in this video we've set up our navigation 2D and navigation instance polygons and use position to
lead to set ups and destinations were now in great shape to get these guards moving.
Some fantastic work and I'll see the next video.